To finish, and this is perhaps the most important of all, is that as I was saying, styles are not good or bad.
What we have to understand well is, and it is an exercise that you have to do,
is depending on the situation in which you are, the context of your type of work, etc.
Now we are going to see depending on which variables, we have to do the analysis of which style is most suitable.
And I am convinced that if you do the diagnosis you will realize that in many cases styles that are not suitable for the situation are applied.
We are going to use, in this case, a matrix, which seems to me to be very simple and that is why it helps us to locate or identify in what situation we are.
Or is in our work. And we are going to do it according to the variables.
On the one hand, we have in the axis of the Y, we are going to classify the tasks or functions that you are developing in your team,
depending on whether at one end, imagine tasks that are very high repetition, in which everything is very procedimental,
that you can contribute very little, that you know exactly what each person has to do, etc.
I give you the extreme example, which is understood well when we go to extremes.
The extreme example of a production chain, in a factory.
There is little to do here, basically what you have to do is execute it.
That is one extreme. And the other extreme, which would it be?
Well, in which the repetition is very low, in which there is a lot of ability to create, the value is in that, many times in being more innovative, etc.
This is the scale on the axis of the Y, okay?
And on the axis of the X, what we are going to think is, until now we were thinking about the type of task,
and now we are going to think about the people we have in the team, okay?
And we are going to classify them according to the capacity of autonomy.
What do I mean by this?
Let's think about the extreme of when autonomy is very high, they are usually very proactive people,
with more professional experience, who do not need so much knowledge, they already have it, who like to contribute, etc.
And on the other hand, when the capacity of autonomy is lower, well, it is the opposite, right?
People who, because they do not have the capacity or do not want to, do not have so much autonomy, they like it more,
they prefer to be given the most difficult tasks, not having to worry every morning about what they have to do,
they need more support because they need more knowledge, etc.
So we have the two axes, the axis of the X, which we talked about according to the members of the team,
and the axis of the Y according to the type of task, and what we are going to do is determine different situations
and which are the most convenient leadership styles.
And we go with it, we go with both extremes, okay?
Let's think that the tasks are very repetitive, there is little to create here, and also you have the members of your team
who do not want to have autonomy, what they want is to give them things well marked, they do not have much knowledge, etc.
Which do you think is the style that best fits in this case?
Well, here what best fits is that you are authoritarian, that whatever you say is done,
like a clock that looks for efficiency, that you do not give much freedom to the members of your team, etc.
And the extreme is again a chain of assembly, an industrial chain.
Here there is little to innovate, you determine the rules, the schedules, zero flexibility,
whatever you say is done and period.
And we go to the opposite extreme, we are going to think that the tasks are very creative,
that there is very little repetition, that it takes a lot of creativity, that really the key is in that.
And I'm going to give you two examples, imagine that you are building a company from scratch,
in which everything is to be created, you do not have product market fit yet, you have to create, you have to think, you have to innovate,
you still do not know what is going to happen.
In this case you can not be executing because you do not know what you have to execute, you have to create.
Or we are going to think, for example, that you sell strategic consulting projects and that each project is a world,
it is a blank sheet.
Well, here the key is that you can not execute from the first day because you still do not know what to do, the key is to create.
And you also have members of your team who are quite senior people, not by age but by level, very proactive,
in which they contribute a lot to you and you do not have much to contribute to them, etc.
What would be the style that best suits in this case?
Well, the opposite of the authoritarian, the most delegative style.
In this case you can leave them freedom because they are people who are going to fulfill, okay?
And they will be more comfortable in that environment, you will get more of them.
And in the rest of the situations, almost this is a disaster drawer, but it is what makes sense,
in the most normal situations, not so extreme, well, the way to get the most out of your team is, in the end,
the democratic style, which is generally the one that works best, because it is a more balanced style,
in which you are going to make the decisions but you are going to rely on them,
you are going to get in this way that they are more motivated, etc.